Friends, think about it. If you insure your factory,
after getting insurance, you feel safe. If there is
any damage to your property, the
insurance company will stand by you.
But one day something happens
that changes everything.
Some thieves break into your factory at night
and their goal is to steal.
A small mistake by the thieves
turns a spark into a big fire.
Suddenly, the factory machinery and factory
goods catch fire.  The fire
spreads and by the time the fire brigade arrives,
a lot of damage has already been done.
Now you think, no problem, there is insurance, you will get the
claim.  But when you
apply for a claim, the insurance company
says that the claim is not valid
because there was no fire but rather the work of thieves.
Hearing this, friends, anyone's mind would wander.
Actually, this story is a true story.
This work was done with a cement company,
Cement Corporation of India, which had
taken out insurance for its factory.  One night, a
similar incident suddenly occurred in their factory.  The thieves came with the
intention of stealing transformer oil
and some other items.
But the items they used to steal the goods
sparked a spark that set the
transformer on fire.  Suddenly,
a lot of the factory's goods caught fire.  The
company claimed over two crores.
But the insurance company said
your loss was caused by a thief, not a fire.
That is, it was caused by thieves and theft is
not covered in the policy.  The claim was rejected.
Now begins a
long legal battle, the company
went to the National Consumer Disputes Commission.  But even there, they were
shocked. In this case, the main reason was
theft, due to which the insurance claim would not be
received.  Now think, friends, there was a fire and there was damage
but the claim is not being received. But friends, the
story does not end here.  This case
reaches the highest court of the country, the
Honorable Supreme Court, where
Justice Maheshwari hears the case along with
Justice Vijay Bishnoi. Now the biggest twist
comes here.  The Supreme Court read the entire case
very carefully.  He
understood every clause of the insurance policy and said a very big deal.  The
Honorable Supreme Court said that if the
damage was caused by fire, then fire will be
considered the main cause.  The court said that the fire could have started for
any reason, whether it was
due to someone's negligence or an
accident.  Even if it was installed by a third party.
Unless the insured himself
started the fire, the insurance company will have to pay a
claim.  The court also said that
fire insurance does not mean that you
debate the cause of the fire. If the
fire is covered by the policy and there is damage due to fire, then the
insurance company cannot run away from the claim.
This policy also had fire cover,
but theft was not included in the fire exclusion.
This means that the insurance company was
wrong to reject the claim.   The
Supreme Court delivered a direct verdict in this case.  The
insurance company's decision was overturned.  The
decision of the NCDR RC was also
quashed.  Friends,
what is the biggest impact of this decision?  This is not just a case of one company,
it is for every person who has
taken out insurance.  Now insurance companies
cannot reject claims by giving technical reasons.
But the most important thing is the
wording of the policy. If the policy covers fire
and there is damage due to fire, then a claim should be made.
Perhaps it has happened to you
that your claim has been rejected.
Now is the time, friends, to
review your policy again because
your claim may also be valid. Friends, if
you like this information, then do
share this video so that every
needy person can get this information.
And do comment and give your opinion in the comment box.
Follow friends, share the video as much as possible.
Thank you, friends.